# Football analysis 
<div style="text-align: right"> The purpose of this project is to study how the performances of SerieA teams and players are rated by the most popular indices. In particular, because of data availability and transparency problems, we considered SPI, **Soccer Power Index**, to evaluate teams performances and FIFA Overall index for players skills. To do this we developed several scripts, starting from dataset creation up to the setting of non-linear statistical models. Due to the size of the feature space, we performed a **Principal Component Analysis** as a preliminary step. Results are very satisfactory in the case of the SPI, indeed we got an R^2 of 0.84 with a **Simple Linear Regression**, using the most correlated feature (the principal component ‘Capacità finalizzazione’, ρ = 0.92); Multiple Linear Regression, **Lasso** and **Ridge** Regressions perform well, but without substantial differences. In the case of the FIFA Overall index, instead, we encountered a few difficulties, so we considered it necessary to introduce more complex statistical models. Going beyond linearity, we applied a **polynomial regression** model (up to the third order) and a **GAM** (Generalized Additive Model), based on third order splines; after that, we considered **Regression Trees** too, with the algorithms of **Bagging, Random Forest, AdaBoost, Gradient Boosting and XGBoost**.  Comparisons are reported in different tables, anyway the relevant results are given by GAM (with an improvement in the score from 0.36 (Multiple Linear Regression) to 0.43) and Gradient Boosting (reaching an accuracy of 94.64%). Finally, as a further step of analysis, we considered the decomposition of the Overall index into four subindices: attack, defense, passing_types, possession. Usually the index is divided into six main skills, but we adapted the division to our case study. This point of the analysis did not lead to significant results: attack, passing_types and possession show a very slight improvement in the value of R adj, while there is an important lack of interpretative capability in every statistical model considered with defense. So, resuming what has been said along all the report, football is a team sport and therefore team and individual performance are tightly connected and impossible to disentangle. Nevertheless, the aim of a good player performance rating should be to disentangle as much as possible in order to be fair with regard to all players. A good rating system in football should be able to find a balance between the influence of the individual and the team performance on the rating. It should identify good performances of players in bad teams and bad performances of players in well performing teams. This feature of a good rating system is hard to satisfy. Even though players might play many accurate crosses, they will receive a poor rating because their teammates could not turn any crosses into goals and consequently none of the players will receive any (rating) points for assists or goals. The identification of an index of this type would represent the turning point in statistics in the football field, it would represent the fundamental tool for building new theories and giving an in-depth reading of the dynamics of this sport. As data relating to player contributions become more sophisticated and more representative of the game, we expect further development of the index. Such data could allow complex interactions between player actions to be modelled in a way that is not currently considered in performance indices construction. </div>
